on Thursday and they did not have a microphone and they said I'm sorry we
don't have a microphone here and it's like it's not really necessary it's okay
and at the end someone commented of you have a voice for a clergy individual I'm
not sure what to call you but whatever it is that we're supposed to call you
you have a voice for it and I wasn't sure exactly how to take that but I said
thank you and praise the Lord and we certainly thank the Lord for the
opportunity I mentioned to some on Friday evening about the opportunity at
that funeral and there are a number of lost people that were there in fact I'm
pretty confident that most everyone that was there was probably lost and had the
opportunity to give the gospel a couple of different times and so very thankful
for that opportunity and we're trusting God to do what only God can do as the
the seed has been planted amen and so thank you for your prayers Deuteronomy
chapter number six this evening Deuteronomy chapter number six and we'll
be looking specifically at the end of the chapter verses 20 through 25 but by
way of introduction we're mindful this evening that the book of Deuteronomy is
a unique book as it provides vital instruction to the children of Israel as
they were prepared to enter into the land of promise we understand that the
Lord ensured that his people would understand what it was that he expected
of them and we find that God would give Moses the instruction of course that
had already been given but now would be given again here in the book of
Deuteronomy and we find that as God would give this information to his
people and Moses is a faithful minister to deliver this information it was for
their good and I'm so thankful and I know that I mention it often but I'm so
thankful to have a Bible that God and his infinite wisdom determined that he
would give us his word and it's through his word that we have an opportunity not
only to learn who he is and who we are but we have the opportunity to
understand through the scripture through the Word of God what it is that pleases
God and what it is that displeases God it teaches us how we can approach a holy
God and I'm thankful for the Word of God and we find that here for the children
of Israel as they would prepare to enter into a land that they had not yet been
to but a land that had been promised to them by God Almighty of course he had
made it known to them prior and then through this book he reminds them that
they're not to behave in the manners in which they saw the Egyptians behave nor
were they to behave in the manners in which they would see the people that
dwelled in the land they were not to behave in that manner either that God
was going to prescribe for them that behavior that would please him and here
in Deuteronomy chapter number six really this particular chapter is so rich with
just amazing treasures if you will and I want to focus on verses 20 through 25
for the message this evening but really go home and read the entirety of this
chapter there's many many truths here that would be a blessing to you but the
Bible says this in verse number 20 and when thy son asketh thee in time to come
saying what mean the testimonies and the statutes and the judgments which the
Lord our God hath commanded you then thou shalt say unto my son we were
Pharaoh's bondmen in Egypt and the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty
hand and the Lord showed signs and wonders great and sore upon Egypt upon
Pharaoh and upon all his household before our eyes and he brought us out
from fence that he might bring us in to give us the land which he swear unto our
fathers and the Lord commanded us to do all these statutes to fear the Lord our
God notice this phrase for our good always that he might preserve us alive
as it is at this day and it shall be our righteousness if we observe to do
all these commandments before the Lord our God as he hath commanded us you'll
notice not part of our specific text this evening but in verse number 18 the
Bible says and thou shalt do that which is right and good in the sight of the
Lord notice this phrase that it may be well with thee and that thou mayest go
in and possess the good land which the Lord swear unto thy fathers and so we
notice in verse number 18 that the Word of God says that it may be well with
thee here in verse number 24 the phrase that we've used for our title this
evening for our good always God gave these statutes and it's our duty to obey
these statutes and it's for our good always we find that as we look at this
portion of Scripture I want you to notice first of all the inquiry notice
the inquiry it's made in verse number 20 and as these this passage of Scripture
would begin to unfold and share this truth with with us this evening we find
that the Bible says when thy son asketh thee in time to come and so we notice
the inquiry that is being made we understand that here as God is giving
this truth and he's preparing his people for entrance into the land and earlier
in this passage of Scripture we find that the fathers were given the
responsibility of teaching their children and giving them truth as they
would have that responsibility we find that God warned them that when they
would enter into a land that had houses which they built not and vineyards which
they planted not and when they were enjoying all of the good of the land
that they must beware lest thou forget the Lord and now as we come to the end
of chapter number six God is giving the children of Israel he says and when thy
son asketh thee in time to come he does not say if thy son but he says when thy
son the reality is that we notice as we look at this particular passage and
think about this inquiry that is being made we'd find that it's a reasonable
inquiry we find that many times our children we can experience how that even
our children may ask us questions about the things that we do about the manners
and behaviors that we have and they may look to us and say why do we do these
things and we find that here God says to the the children of Israel he says when
thy son asketh thee in time to come notice the question what mean the
testimonies and the statutes and the judgments which the Lord our God hath
commanded you we note at the end of the question that there was a recognition
there was an understanding that they came from the Lord our God but we find
that they're inquiring as to what mean the testimonies the statutes and the
judgments we find that testimonies as we look at these three categories that are
mentioned specifically in verse number 20 that testimonies are laws as divine
testimonies we would find that as you would look to the Pentateuch as we'd
often refer to it as the the first five books of the Bible and we begin to look
at Leviticus and Exodus and look at those books and understand that God is
giving the law many times we would think about the law and we may think strictly
to Exodus 20 with the Ten Commandments but you understand that the law for the
people of God was much more detailed than just Ten Commandments we find that
there were many testimonies many laws that had been given to the children of
Israel and as you would study through the book of Leviticus and you'd study
through that portion of scripture will be begin to read of the laws that God
gave the testimonies that God gave not only did God give testimonies but we see
the second mention here in verse number 20 is with regard to statutes a statute
is an ordinance or a prescribed task there were certain things that the
children of Israel were instructed to do to observe things that they were to keep
as an ordinance and these prescribed tasks would be categorized as being
statutes and then we'd find finally in verse number 20 that the third of these
categories is that of judgments a judgment is an act of deciding a case a
process or procedure for a decision we understand that if we'd read through the
law and we'd understand the entirety of it there were certain ways in which you
could break the law and it would give what the judgment should be and you'd
find that those judgments were prescribed there were certain ways in
which you could be found guilty and the judgment for such behavior was death and
you can read of these things in the book of Exodus and the book of Leviticus in
particular and you can read of all of these testimonies and statutes and
judgments and you find that the generation to come is going to to come
and they're going to make this inquiry and they say what mean
the testimonies and the statutes
and the judgments which the Lord our God
hath commanded you.
Why? What is the purpose of these things?
What is it? Why is it that God has given
these to us?
I made note just a moment ago
that this is, I believe,
a reasonable inquiry.
And I believe that when we recognize
that it's a reasonable inquiry,
that it will result in a unique opportunity.
I believe that at times,
and perhaps it was here that God
was giving this truth to His people
so that they would avoid the danger
that far too often I think
that we're guilty of falling into,
and that is looking at an individual
that would question as being a rebel.
Someone is questioning why we do these things
that they're just standing in opposition
and rebellion to whatever it is
that's been taught or that's been going forth.
But we find that God is saying to His people,
there's going to come a time
when your children are going to ask.
Be prepared to give an answer.
Don't just take it as being rebellion.
Don't just take it as they're just
bucking the system, so to speak.
Be prepared to give an answer.
Maybe the reasonable inquiry
will result in a unique opportunity.
Can you imagine?
As we would put ourselves
in the position of the children of Israel,
and perhaps as being a parent
to one of these children that come and say,
why is it that God gave these testimonies
and these statutes and these judgments?
Run along, child. He just did.
It's just our duty to do.
What's going to happen to that child?
You think there's going to be any relationship
that's going to be developed there?
No, you've missed the opportunity.
We find that this inquiry
leads to a unique opportunity.
I believe that as we would think about
the instruction that is given here
to the children of Israel,
and even as we think about our own lives,
that we must purpose to seize the opportunities
such as this one to instruct
and influence a future generation.
The opportunity that we have
to seize that moment
and to understand in that moment
that when that inquiry is being made,
that it is an opportunity for us
to influence and instruct a future generation.
Let me explain to you.
Let me help you understand
why God gave us that which He has given us.
And as we would begin to look at the answer
that is provided,
and God is such a good God.
He says, here's how you answer.
Let me help you get the right answer.
Here's how you answer your children.
When they come with this question,
when they come and they say,
what mean the testimonies, the statutes,
and the judgments which the Lord our God
hath commanded you,
then thou shalt say unto thy son.
God gives them the answer.
Here's what you need to tell your children.
Here's how you influence and instruct your children.
And so we notice the inquiry.
Now notice the instruction.
We notice this inquiry is made,
but we find that the instruction is so deep
in v. 21-25,
and we would find the depth of the answer
in which God gives to His people
to provide for the next generation.
He says, here's what you tell them.
We were Pharaoh's bondmen in Egypt.
And the Lord brought us out of Egypt
with a mighty hand.
I believe that as we look here at v. 21,
and then notice in v. 22,
it says, and the Lord showed signs and wonders
great and sore upon Egypt,
upon Pharaoh,
and upon all his household.
Notice this phrase,
before our eyes.
The reality is that there are some things
that you have seen.
There are some things that the parents
observed and experienced
that the children have not experienced.
And so we find that in v. 21 and 22,
that when we note the instruction
that what they would be giving
to the generation to come,
to their children,
is they would declare to them
the might and power of God.
That God brought us out of Egypt
with a mighty hand.
Now, I understand that it stops there
in v. 21 and says God brought us out,
but you understand as you would be
the individual again to put ourselves
in this position of crossing that Red Sea.
You think that the conversation
could go further than just simply saying
He brought us out with a mighty hand?
You begin to dive in as to how God did it.
What God did.
What you experienced.
And you find that you begin to declare
to a generation to come,
to your own children in this particular context,
the might and power of God.
He says in v. 22 about the way
that the Lord showed signs and wonders
great and sore upon Egypt.
What is He speaking of?
He's speaking of the plagues, no doubt.
You begin to understand those nine plagues
and then of course the tenth
with the death of the firstborn.
And you begin to understand
that it says at the end of v. 22,
before our eyes.
They experienced this.
They saw the hand of God.
It was the magicians to Pharaoh
that declared after a few of those plagues,
this is nothing more than the finger of God.
They recognized that God was moving and working.
And we find that here,
the first level of instruction
is to declare to these children,
to a generation to come,
the might and power of God.
You know, our God is mighty.
He's all-powerful.
We use the theological term
to describe the power of God
that He is omnipotent,
that He's all-powerful.
And I believe at times that perhaps
it's difficult for us to even fully comprehend
all that that means.
There's nothing too hard for Him.
The Word of God declares
all throughout the Scriptures
the fact that He is the Almighty God.
The omnipotent God reigneth.
We read in Revelation.
We read in Genesis in the beginning, God.
And what did He say?
He said, let there be light.
There's light.
Right?
He is the power of creation.
You read in Revelation,
the Lord God omnipotent reigneth.
You read throughout the Word of God
in Genesis 18.
Is there anything too hard for the Lord?
Jeremiah says,
O Lord God, Thou hast made the heavens.
By Thy great power,
nothing is too difficult.
Nothing is too hard for Thee.
With God, all things are possible.
And we find that the generation to come
needs to know the might and power of God.
Our children, they need to know
the might and the power of God.
And you find that it begins, you say,
well, they asked about the testimonies
and the statutes and the judgments.
Yeah, but before we get to that,
we need to let the children know
where we were.
We were in Egypt.
We were in bondage.
And God brought us out.
What does Egypt represent in the Word of God?
The world.
Typology.
It represents the world.
We could think about the way in which
God brought the children of Israel
out of Egypt.
And we could draw parallels
to New Testament redemption.
Amen?
You can draw those parallels quite easily
when you begin to see how the 10th plague,
the death of the firstborn,
the Passover, right?
The blood that had to be applied
in Christ, our Passover.
And the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ
went to the cross of Calvary
to shed His precious blood for us.
When we begin to look at the Passover
and you understand that it was not only
a memorial of what God did
in bringing them out of Egypt,
but it was a picture of Messiah
who would come and provide
the way of salvation
and we pay the price of our redemption.
We find that there's a great parallel
when you look at the exodus,
the children of Israel leaving Egypt
and you look at redemption for us
as the people of God.
A great parallel.
Listen, God brought us out of Egypt.
God delivered us.
He saved us.
He changed us.
We find that the might and power of God
is first given to this next generation.
Notice as we continue looking,
notice in v. 23, the Bible says,
and He, speaking of the Lord,
He brought us out from fence
that He might bring us in
to give us the land which He sware
unto our fathers.
In v. 23, I think as you look
at the beginning portion of this verse,
you see the plan and purpose of God.
You know our God has a plan and a purpose.
The Bible says that He brought us out
from fence that He might bring us in.
He didn't bring them out to just leave them
in the wilderness.
He brought them out to bring them in.
Amen?
And we think about new times.
as New Testament believers,
as New Testament Christians,
and we think about the truth of redemption
that He delivered us from our sin
and He brought us to a place of being redeemed,
and He has a plan for us
that as we're in Christ,
that we are to walk in Christ
and to live as children of the light
because He's delivered us from that bondage.
And we find here that the children
would be given this instruction
that God has a plan and a purpose.
God has a purpose for your life.
He has a plan for your life.
He had a plan and a purpose for us.
We understand as we read
throughout the Old Testament
or read of the children of Israel
in this particular setting,
we understand that they wandered in the wilderness.
That was not God's plan.
God's plan was not that He would deliver them from Egypt
so that they would wander in the wilderness,
but because of their unbelief.
What happened when Moses sent those spies?
We sing it with the children.
Twelve men went up to spy on Canaan.
Ten were bad.
Two were good.
Right?
Those ten bad spies, they come back
and they say they're giants in the land
and we're not able.
I mean, we're just going to be consumed.
It was better when we were in Egypt.
Right?
Joshua and Caleb rent their clothes.
They never denied for a moment
that they did not have fortified cities.
that there were not giants in the land.
They simply declared that our God is greater.
And our God is able
because our God has a plan and a purpose.
And they picked up stones
and they were ready to stone Joshua and Caleb.
So what happened?
God said they're all going to die.
And over the period of the wilderness wanderings,
that generation died.
We find now that this generation
is preparing to enter into the land.
And we find that the plan and the purpose of God
for us and our lives and we'd understand,
listen, God saved us,
but He saved us for a purpose.
And He has a plan for us.
And He did not, listen,
salvation is so much more
than just some kind of fire insurance policy.
That man, I'm not going to go to the lake of fire when I die.
I've been saved.
Now I can just live however I want to live.
That's not what it's about.
It's about living for Christ.
Doing what He has commissioned us to do.
Not only do we see the plan and purpose of God
in the beginning of v. 23,
but I believe that we see the faithfulness of God
in v. 23.
Notice at the end of the verse
where the Bible says to give us the land
which He sware unto our fathers.
Aren't you thankful this evening
that our God is faithful?
We sing, great is Thy faithfulness.
We find that it is Jeremiah
that would pen those words
in the book of Lamentations
after seeing the destruction of the city,
after the Babylonians came in,
and he said, great is Thy faithfulness.
We find that Paul would testify
on a number of occasions in the New Testament
that our God is faithful.
It's there in 1 Thessalonians 5
where it says,
faithful is he that calleth you
who also will do it.
Listen, we have a faithful God.
He is trustworthy.
He is dependable.
Every promise that He has made,
He will fulfill.
The Lord is not slack concerning His promise.
We know contextually that that is given
in 2 Peter 3 with regard to the coming of the Lord
when Jesus said, I will come again.
And there are people that are scoffing and mocking
and saying, where is His return?
Where is His appearing?
And Peter says, the Lord is not slack
concerning His promise,
but is longsuffering to us, Lord,
not willing that any should perish,
but that all should come to repentance.
I want you to understand that the truth
in 2 Peter 3 directly related
to the promise of His coming.
We understand that, but broadly speaking,
the Lord is not slack concerning His promise.
What He has promised, He will fulfill.
You say, well, I'm not seeing it.
You just stay faithful.
Don't get weary in well-doing.
Galatians 6.
We find the truth in Philippians 1.
In verse 6, being confident in this very thing,
that He which hath begun a good work in you
will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ.
Our God is faithful.
And this answer that has been given
starting in verse 21 to the inquiry that is made
you notice the depth of the instruction
that they would understand the might and power of God,
the plan and purpose of God,
the faithfulness of God.
We see even here the eternality of God,
for He swear unto our fathers.
It was to Abraham, as we've studied in the book of Genesis,
that the promise of a land and a seed was given.
And that promise was reiterated.
And we find that even as Jacob would go down into Egypt,
that he was concerned and he was confused
because of all that was going on,
but God had sent Joseph there to preserve life.
And through all of those circumstances,
and God says to Jacob,
don't fear to go down there,
I'm going to go with you
and I'm going to build there of thee a great nation.
And that's what God did.
And Joseph, when he's dying,
he makes this mention in Genesis chapter number 50,
as he is there dying,
and it says here,
and God will surely visit you
and bring you out of this land
unto the land which He swore to Abraham,
to Isaac, and to Jacob.
That's Genesis 50 and verse 24.
Joseph believed the promise of God.
Amen?
And we find here that these,
that would inquire,
they needed to understand the faithfulness of God,
the eternality of God.
Notice in verse 24,
and the Lord commanded us to do all these statutes.
So notice the progression of what's going on.
Excuse me, mom, dad.
What mean the testimonies, statutes, and judgments
which the Lord our God hath commanded you?
Well, you understand that we are in Egypt.
And God demonstrated His power
and He delivered us from Egypt.
And He brought us out of thins
to bring us into this land.
And it's the land that He promised unto our fathers.
And God is faithful to do that
which He's promised to do.
And when we come and we understand
that God delivered us out from Egypt
and He has this plan and this purpose
to bring us into this land,
that He commanded us these statutes.
He gave us His law.
He gave us that which would be profitable for us.
We notice that it says,
and the Lord commanded us in verse 24
to do all these statutes
to fear the Lord our God for our good always.
That He might preserve us alive
as it is at this day.
And it shall be our righteousness
if we observe to do all these commandments
before the Lord our God
as He hath commanded us.
I believe that here in these verses of Scripture
that really we see the goodness of God on display.
How good of God to give these statutes,
to give these commandments to His people.
And it says here that the Lord commanded us
to do all these statutes
to fear the Lord our God, notice,
for our good always.
You ever have somebody tell you to do something
and then they don't really provide you
the specific, detailed instructions
on how to do whatever it is
that they are telling you to do?
And you in your best attempt
seek to do what you've been asked to do?
And they say, no, no, no, that's not how you do it.
You're not doing it the right way.
I say, why don't you show me how to do it?
Right? Do you ever feel like saying that?
I mean, if you're not giving me the directions,
you told me to do this,
and I'm doing the best that I can do.
But in my best attempt,
all I'm hearing is the criticism.
Nope, that's not the right way.
No, that's not how you do it.
No, that's not...
See, God doesn't do that.
God said, here are My statutes.
Here are My testimonies.
Here are My judgments.
Here's how you are to behave.
Here's how you're to live.
These are the things that you do
that will be good for you.
And so when you begin to think about it in this way,
I believe that it will help you
to have a greater appreciation
for the statutes, the testimonies, and the judgments.
When we begin to understand that God in His goodness
has given us these truths.
See, today we're living in an era
in which so many people, I hear it so often,
that they look at the Bible as simply being a rule book.
That the Bible simply contains do's and don'ts.
That the Bible simply is trying to dictate how I live my life.
Well, when we understand the way in which the Bible was given and the God who gave us
the Bible, we understand that He gave it to us for our good.
He gave it to us for our good.
I have, of course, moving into the parsonage in the last week, we've had some things to
put together.
I've installed six ceiling fans.
And in installing those ceiling fans, I'm thankful for the instruction manual that came
with them.
All but one were very easy to put in.
The one that was not easy to put in, I was ready to take back to the store.
But the reality is that those instructions were given to help you complete the task.
I'm thankful on that sixth ceiling fan.
It's the one in our living room.
Holly said, I like how it looks.
I think I want that one.
So we bought it.
And we opened up the directions and began to follow.
And step number one, put on the blades.
I thought, what in the world?
I put up ceiling fans so many times, I never put the blades on first.
I mean, now I got to work around the blades while I'm trying to hang it up.
That doesn't make any sense.
So I'm going to skip to step number six, when it's talking about how to mount the thing.
And that's why I'm being very transparent with you.
And I begin reading step number six, and I'm going through, and I'm like, all right, here's
what we got to do.
And we're going to do this and this.
And I'm like, this is going to be a problem.
Because if I do step number six before I do step number one, I'm going to have a ceiling
fan mounted without any blades, because there's not going to be any way to get the blades
on it.
So what did I do?
I went back to page number one, and I said, I guess I ought to begin with step number
one.
And now I have a ceiling fan that has blades, and it rotates, and it produces air, and there's
a light.
But it's because I followed the directions.
Somebody who was the engineer that designed that particular ceiling fan model put together
a set of instructions that, if followed, allows for the final product to work.
Is that fair to say it that way?
So what if I, as the operator, decide I'm going to do it my way?
I've already installed five ceiling fans.
I mean, between Thursday afternoon and Friday morning, I did five of them in the house.
I did three of them in the rental that we're staying in.
So man, I've installed a lot of ceiling fans in the last six months.
So now all of a sudden, it's going to tell me to do it a different way.
It wouldn't have worked out well.
Because as the operator, as the installer, there were some things that I did not know
that the engineer who designed it knew.
Does that make sense?
It's a simple illustration.
But when we begin to think about this book, and we think about the God who created us,
the God who is the judge of the earth, by the way, the God who loves us with an un...I
mean, just a love that is beyond measure, He says, I love you so much that I'm going
to give you testimonies, statutes, and judgments for your good.
I in my goodness, I in my grace and in my mercy, I'm going to give these things to you.
And by the way, it's in your best interest to take heed.
Remember in verse number 18, it says, and thou shalt do that which is right and good
in the sight of the Lord, that it may be well with thee.
Here in verse number 24, it says that the Lord commanded us to do all these statutes
to fear the Lord our God for our good always.
Notice the next phrase, that He might preserve us alive as it is at this day.
I mentioned already that as you study through the law and you study through the book of
Leviticus in particular, you'll begin to find that there were certain ways in which you
could break the laws, and the consequence was death.
There were to be stoned.
There were grave consequences.
And so, how is it that I avoid that punishment?
I better take heed to what I'm supposed to do.
And so, we think about this and we understand as we would look to the land even in which
we live, a land that is at one point, I think things are changing now, but a land of laws,
a land of rights and wrongs.
How is it that I can retain my freedom, avoid being incarcerated while I follow the laws?
And it's good for me, right?
I mean, I don't have to fear being pulled over or having an interaction with a police
officer if I'm being obedient to the law of the land.
I don't have to fear the judgment of God if I'm walking in His statutes, if I'm being
obedient to what He's commanded.
And so, we find here that He says it's for our good always, that He, God, might preserve
us alive as it is this day, and it shall be our righteousness if we observe to do all
these commandments before the Lord our God as He hath commanded us.
Now, I begin to look at these answers that are provided, and we begin to look at the
attributes of God that are revealed in verses 21 through 25, His might, His power, the fact
that He has a plan and a purpose, the fact that He's faithful and that He's eternal,
the goodness of God is on display.
And we find that these that have made the inquiry are given this detailed instruction
and they're told it's for our good.
That's a great bit of instruction, is it not?
It's so much better than just saying, well, God did and so we just got to do whatever
God says to do, you know, just fall in line.
No, no, no, let's give the instruction, let's seize that opportunity.
And God gives to His people this bit of instruction, obedience to the law of the Lord, as we read
in verses 24 and 25, obedience would result in the blessings of the covenant.
You begin to read through the book of Leviticus, and you find that the Word of God will say
that if you're obedient, if you do these things, then I will do these things.
And God is faithful to do what He said He will do.
If you obey me, if you follow me, if you do what I've commanded you, then I will do these
things.
And He does.
But if you disobey, well, then you got to face the consequences.
In fact, in just a few chapters here in the book of Deuteronomy, we'll find that the Word
of God says it this way, that God will lay before you.
Notice turn over a few pages, Deuteronomy chapter number 11.
In Deuteronomy chapter number 11, in verse number 26, notice what the Word of God says,
behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse.
Now if it stops there, and I say to you, which one do you want?
What's your answer?
A blessing.
I don't want a curse, amen?
If you say, I want a curse, you need to go to the hospital, seriously.
But notice the condition in verse 27, a blessing, notice that word if, a blessing if ye obey
the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you this day.
And verse 28, a curse if ye will not obey the commandments of the Lord your God, but
turn aside out of the way which I command you this day to go after other gods which
ye have not known.
Verse 31 says, for ye shall pass over Jordan to go in to possess the land which the Lord
your God giveth you, and ye shall possess it and dwell therein, and ye shall observe
to do all the statutes and judgments which I set before you this day.
A blessing and a curse, the condition is obedience.
A blessing if you obey, a curse if you will not obey.
And so we find that God has given to us His word.
You know, there are many people around the world that are following false world religions
that serve a plurality of deities that have absolutely no idea what they are to do or
what they are not to do to have favor from their deities.
They live in constant conflict.
They have no reign and they think that they have offended the reign God.
They have no, I mean you just fill in the blank and they're constantly conflicted and
they don't know what to do and how to do in order to appease their deities.
But the Lord God Almighty, because He loves us, He said, I'm going to give you
I'm going to give you a Word.
I'm going to give you a book
that's going to contain testimonies,
statutes, and judgments.
And it's for your good.
And we have to understand
that there's a generation
just as there was here in Deuteronomy,
that there was going to come a time
when Thy Son asketh Thee in time to come.
There's going to come a time in your life.
There's going to come a time
when it's already come in my life,
and for some of you,
it's already come in your life.
But there's going to come a time
when your children say why?
Why do we do these things?
Oh, that God would help us to be prepared
to seize that opportunity.
Because that inquiry is a fair inquiry
that results in an awesome opportunity.
Notice in the New Testament.
Turn to 2 Peter if you will.
We'll close with two references
from the New Testament.
The obedience of the people of God
as it's mentioned there in Deuteronomy
would result in the blessings of the covenant.
We find that it was there in v. 25
that it mentioned about the righteousness.
It shall be our righteousness.
And really, that's speaking not of salvation,
but really a right standing civically,
if you will,
with regard to those things
that they were dealing with.
And we understand that here
as we would look to the New Testament
that God has continued.
I'm thankful that God has fulfilled the law.
He fulfilled the law.
But you know, we're under grace,
not under the law.
And I'm thankful for that.
But there's this school of thinking
that has this idea
that because we're under grace
and no longer under law
that we can just do whatever we want to do
and live however we want to live.
And that's a lie from the devil.
It's a lie from the devil.
Because the reality is that
Paul speaks very plainly
in the book of Galatians
about the fact that we are not to use
our liberty as a license to sin.
And we don't use our liberty in that way.
Yes, I am free from the law.
What a blessing.
We're no longer under the condemnation.
But now that I'm in Christ,
now I have the liberty to serve Him
as His child.
And we find here that in the New Testament,
the truth of God's commandments
still exists for us.
And many of the Ten Commandments,
in fact, all other than keeping the Sabbath
are mentioned in the New Testament.
You study through the New Testament
and you'll find that there are behaviors
that we as the people of God are to follow.
And we find that the Word of God says
in 1 Peter 1,
we're in 2 Peter 1,
but in 1 Peter,
he talks about the fact that we are to be holy
even as God is holy.
That's a reference back to Leviticus.
That we're to not behave ourselves.
We're not to follow that former conversation.
We are to be holy as God is holy.
But notice here in 2 Peter 1,
notice what Peter says.
Now Peter walked with Christ.
Peter had the unique privilege
of being at the Mount of Transfiguration.
It was Peter, James, and John,
three that were at that event.
And Peter here will speak of that event
when they were at the Mount of Transfiguration.
And we find today that there are people that say,
well, if God would just speak to me,
if He'd just appear to me,
and so on and so forth.
But we find that Peter that walked with Christ,
that heard the voice of God,
there at the Mount of Transfiguration,
notice what he says in v. 19
as he would speak about the written Word of God,
we have also a more sure word of prophecy.
Now notice this phrase.
Whereunto ye do well that ye take heed,
as unto a light that shineth in a dark place
until the day dawn and the day star arise
in your hearts.
We said this as our title this evening
from Deuteronomy 6.
For our good always.
We noted that in v. 18 of Deuteronomy 6,
it says that it may be well with thee.
Here in 2 Peter 1 and v. 19,
Peter says whereunto ye do well
that ye take heed.
It's in our best interest to obey God.
It's in our best interest to know
what God has said.
I'm gonna have a hard time obeying the Word of God
if I don't know the Word of God.
Amen?
As someone said to me not long ago
about some of the various laws of the land
and so on and so forth,
and they made the admission themselves
that they were ignorant as to some of the laws
in the Commonwealth of Virginia.
And I would venture to say that most all of us
are ignorant of some of the laws in Virginia.
But you know that ignorance is no excuse.
You get pulled over and the police officer says,
you violated this.
You say, well, I didn't know.
You got a license, man.
You're responsible to know.
I lived here for just a few weeks.
Actually, just a few days.
I got pulled over because I had a Virginia license plate,
but I had not updated my inspection sticker
because the lady at DMV told me I had 30 days.
She was wrong, and the police officer
was there to enforce it.
And I said, sir, I am very sorry.
I didn't know.
I'll go right now, and I did.
I went straight to the station
and got that inspection sticker put on.
But ignorance is no excuse.
Listen, we need to know the Word of God.
The children of Israel, when they inquire and say,
hey, these testimonies, these statutes,
and these judgments, they had to know them
if they were gonna have the benefit of them.
It's for our good always.
If you do well, that you take heed.
Notice in 1 John 5, we'll close here.
1 John 5 and verse number three.
It's in John 14 and verse 15 that the Bible says,
if you love Me, keep My commandments.
And here in 1 John 5 and verse number three,
the Bible says, for this is the love of God,
that we keep His commandments.
And notice this, His commandments are not grievous.
Why are they not burdensome?
That's what the word grievous means.
Why is it that they're not burdensome?
Because I understand that it's from a loving God
that He's given me these commandments,
and that it's for my good.
It's not just that God's trying to make robots.
It's not just that God's trying to make people do, no.
God is the judge of all the world,
and He's going to judge, and He says,
here are My statutes, My commandments, My judgments.
Here's My word for you to obey,
and it's in your best interest.
And as a child of God, as a believer,
a follower of Jesus Christ,
His commandments are not grievous,
because I understand that He has given them to me
out of love, and He's given them to me for my good.
Oh, what a great opportunity that we have.
And all the way back in the book of Deuteronomy,
God says to the children of Israel,
listen, there's going to come a time
when your children are going to ask,
what mean these testimonies, these statutes, these judgments?
And here's how you answer them.
Let them know where you were.
And let them know what God did for you.
And let them know how God has a plan and a purpose.
And let them know that it's from the goodness
and love of God that He's given us these commandments,
and that it's for our good always.
See, the reality is that the generation to come,
see, my children don't know anything about living in Egypt.
They don't know anything about living in Egypt.
Some of you have children that don't know anything
about living in Egypt.
When they were born, you were saved.
You were in church.
You were serving God.
They don't know about Egypt.
But can I tell you that Egypt has an allure to it?
Right?
Come on, don't look at me like I'm crazy.
The devil tries to use all that's within his arsenal
to attack and to cause,
and so our children need to understand,
listen, there's nothing good in Egypt.
There's nothing good in the world.
He's delivered us from the world.
And you've been blessed to be born in a home
where you have parents that are Christians,
and God's given us this for our good,
but yet we have children that are walking away.
It's sad.
I'm not speaking of anyone in particular.
I'm speaking broadly in Christendom.
It's happening.
The statistics are alarming,
and I just wonder.
I sat down with a pastor probably 15 years ago,
and he asked me a question.
He said, what do you think is wrong with our church?
He was my pastor.
I was intimidated by the question.
I was about 24, 25 years old, maybe 25, 26 years old,
and 15 years ago makes me not as young
as I'd like for it to make me,
but I was about Jared's age,
and he asked me that question, and I said this.
I said, can I be honest?
He said, I want you to be honest, and he said, honestly, here's what I think.
I think for too often a young person comes and asks a pastor or a person in leadership,
why do we do the things that we do?
And that person in leadership does not take the time to instruct and simply says, do as
you've been told.
You're a rebel, and it's causing our young people to leave the church.
It's happened, and God has given us, listen, we have a rich answer to give, and it's an
answer that will help establish and make just a strong, firm foundation.
Here's what God's done for us.
God's so good to us, and He's given us these things for our good always.
Let's pray.
Father, we love You.
We thank You for loving us.
God, we thank You that You love us so much with an unconditional love, an everlasting
love that You have given us Thy Word.
Admittedly, this evening, there are areas in which we fall short.
Our desire is to be obedient to You and to Your Word.
We understand that we do well that we take heed thereunto.
We understand that Your commandments are not grievous, they're not burdensome, because
we understand that You've given them to us out of love and for our good.
I pray, God, that You would use the truth from Thy Word that has been given this evening
to help us shape a proper perspective with regard to the inquiries that we must face,
and that we'd be prepared to provide the instruction that would help to establish a firm foundation.
I think of families in our church with younger children.
God, I pray that You'd help the parents.
Father, I think of grandparents in our church that have grandchildren.
Those of us that will have the opportunity to influence the young people of our church,
God, would You help us to be able to provide good instruction?
I thank You so much for Your Word, for the difference that it's made in my life, and
I pray that You would help us, Lord, to influence a next generation.
Would You move and work in our midst this evening as only You can?
I pray that You'd help us.
We'll give You the glory for all that You'll do, for it's in Christ's name we pray.
Would You stand with me?